---
title: Sec 1 Orientation 2022
permalink: /developing-confident-leaders/secondary-1-orientation-camp-experience-by-student-counsellors/
description: ""
---
## Secondary 1 Orientation Camp Experience by Student Counsellors

The transition to secondary school can be overwhelming. The environment is new, the people are unfamiliar and the subjects are foreign. As such, as student leaders, we aim to help make this transition less stressful for the new members of the school!

The Secondary 1 Orientation Programme was held over 4 days from the 4th to the 7th of January. As Student Councillors, we had to plan for the activities for the Orientation and were assigned the role of Orientation Class Leaders (OCLs). The CCA Leaders were also assigned the role of Amazing Race Game Masters to guide the new batch of Secondary 1 students through a series of fun and games.

During the Secondary 1 Orientation, the classes played engaging bonding games to familiarise themselves with their classmates. Not only were the games fun, they were also intentionally crafted to include Habits of Mind which we believe are essential and necessary habits for all students. The OCLs also conducted several bonding activities to strengthen the camaraderie among the classes. There is no doubt that the first day would be extremely awkward. However, over the few days of Orientation, we witnessed the classes grow in their appreciation of each other and their understanding of one another. They were more responsive and truly let their hair down during the activities! It was also heartwarming to see the students step out of their comfort zone to talk to people they do not know to expand their social circle.

To further strengthen the unity of the classes, we played a series of inter-class games. Everyone had a lot of fun and displayed sportsmanship and perseverance to score as many points as they could for their class.

Aside from that, we also carried out the Amazing Race for the Secondary 1 students to get to know the school environment better. The experience of planning and carrying out this year’s Amazing Race was great! It was an opportunity for our student leaders to organise something significant for our juniors and everyone took pride in planning for it. It was obvious that the activity was a huge success as we could see that the activity did help the Secondary 1 students to get to know the school better. Seeing the Secondary 1 students coming together with their peers to work together was a very nice sight and it made all the hard work worth it! We were also thankful that the Amazing Race gave us an opportunity to know our juniors better. We look forward to meeting them in our CCAs!

On a more personal note, this Orientation has been extremely memorable to the planning team. Although the Orientation was held in January, the planners started their preparation way back in November last year! As the planning team, we had to meet up often – physically and virtually. The regular meetings were necessary to ensure that everyone was on the same page, and that our ideas and plans were well-thought of and properly communicated. Due to the evolving nature of COVID-19, we also had to adjust the activities accordingly to ensure that there was social distancing in the activities we planned. For most of the members in the planning team, Orientation 2022 was especially memorable as it was the first time we planned for such a big event! Even though the stakes were high and we encountered various difficulties along the way, everyone was determined to do their best to plan and execute fulfilling and exciting games for the Secondary 1 students. We are so grateful to be given this opportunity to grow as leaders and would like to extend our appreciation to our School Leaders and teachers for their advice, support and care. We truly learnt so much from this unforgettable experience and we hope the Secondary 1 students had as much fun as we did!

Written by Sarah Pang (3-Gratitude), Joeie Neo (3-Gratitude) and Chan Weng Hin (4-Empathy)