---
title: School Traffic Control
permalink: /school-traffic-control/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Safety Updates
---
<p>We would like to seek the cooperation from parents/guardians in partnering with the school to ensure the safety of students during their arrival and departure. All parents/guardians are urged to adhere to the following guidelines:</p><p>1. Reduce vehicle speed and remain vigilant for pedestrians in the school zone.</p><p>2. Cooperate with traffic marshals to facilitate overall safety and smooth traffic flow.</p><p>3. Ensure that your child/ward disembarks only at the designated drop-off point and does so promptly.</p><p>4. Adhere to traffic regulations by driving cautiously and refraining from illegal maneuvers, such as turning into the school from the outer lane(s) of the road.</p><p>5. Refrain from indiscriminate use of the horn.</p><p>6. Reinforce proper road safety conduct, including utilising pedestrian crossings and avoiding jaywalking or using a mobile phone while crossing.</p><p>7. If your child/ward cycles to school, ensure they are familiar with safe cycling rules and are a proficient cyclist. Wearing a helmet is mandatory while cycling, and all bicycles must have at least one functioning handbrake to be ridden on public paths and roads. As a safety precaution, students must wear a safety helmet and have a functioning handbrake on their bicycles for them to be permitted inside the school premises. If these safety measures are not adhered to, bicycles will not be allowed in the school. Students are to register their bicycle with the school to allow parking within the school premises.</p>